src/pages/projects/prisoners_watch/index.md, before:

---
slug: prisoners_watch
title: "Prisoners Watch"
date: '2015-06-28T14:00:00.000Z'
tags: "open-source website jumpstart-georgia ruby rails"
githubUrl: "https://github.com/JumpStartGeorgia/Azerbaijan-Political-Prisoners"
mainUrl: "https://prisoners.watch"
featuredImage: "Prisoners-Watch-Desktop.png"
---

When this [list of Azerbaijani political prisoners][prisoners-list-aug2014] was published in August, 2014, it served as a condemnation of the deteriorating human rights situation in Azerbaijan. Yet, its impact was limited by its PDF presentation, which made studying and understanding the trends it represented painfully difficult.

My colleagues and I at [JumpStart Georgia][jumpstart-url] built Prisoners.Watch to fix this problem. As the lead developer on the project, I wrote a parser to extract the information in the August 2014 list into a database of prisoners, arrests, prisons, and charges. I then built a web application to provide access to the database, so that 1) the data would be available to everyone, and 2) the data could be updated as the situation on the ground changed in Azerbaijan.

Today, the content of [Prisoners.Watch]({{page.mainUrl}}) is kept up to date by journalists at [Meydan TV][meydan-tv-url] and presents an authoritative and comprehensive source for information about Azerbaijani political prisoners.

If you wish to contribute, [take a look on github]({{page.githubUrl}}) or [get in touch with us at JumpStart][jumpstart-contact-url].

[jumpstart-url]: http://jumpstart.ge
[jumpstart-contact-url]: http://jumpstart.ge/en/contact-us
[meydan-tv-url]: https://www.meydan.tv/
[prisoners-list-aug2014]: http://www.esiweb.org/pdf/THE%20LIST%20-%2098%20political%20prisoners%20in%20Azerbaijan%20-%20August%202014.pdf

Commit message:

Fixed old outdated content in project descriptions.

src/pages/projects/prisoners_watch/index.md, after:

---
slug: prisoners_watch
title: "Prisoners Watch"
date: '2015-06-28T14:00:00.000Z'
tags: "open-source website jumpstart-georgia ruby rails"
githubUrl: "https://github.com/JumpStartGeorgia/Azerbaijan-Political-Prisoners"
featuredImage: "Prisoners-Watch-Desktop.png"
---

When this [list of Azerbaijani political prisoners](http://www.esiweb.org/pdf/THE%20LIST%20-%2098%20political%20prisoners%20in%20Azerbaijan%20-%20August%202014.pdf) was published in August, 2014, it served as a condemnation of the deteriorating human rights situation in Azerbaijan. However, its impact was limited by its PDF presentation, which made studying and understanding the trends it represented painfully difficult.

I built Prisoners.Watch at [JumpStart Georgia](http://jumpstart.ge) to fix this problem. I wrote a parser to extract the information in the August 2014 list into a database of prisoners, arrests, prisons, and charges, and then provided access to the data with a Rails web app.

Unfortunately, Prisoners.Watch is no longer available online. But the code is [open source](https://github.com/JumpStartGeorgia/Azerbaijan-Political-Prisoners), so you're welcome to contribute to the project or fork and host your own version.
